The Joe Rogan experience. Tell me about the hearing aids.
Cause you took them out when you got in and put the headphones on. And this,
this is from listening to music too loud. No,
that you'd think you'd think you'd think. No. Uh, I've uh, genetic,
uh, problem that I didn't know about until three years ago.
And, um, so it's not, and I went to an audiologist. Here's what happened.
I started noticing, uh, Tina and I had been together for a couple of years.
I started noticing, I was saying, excuse me, what? I just,
I wouldn't hear stuff.
Or she would say something that I couldn't remember hearing. And, um,
and I brought it up to her and I said, how do you,
what do you think I ask you to repeat something a lot. She says, uh,
doesn't really bother me. And then it says, but the TV is very loud.
So really the TV is very loud. I said, oh, I don't even realize that.
So I went to an audiologist and lo and behold, um, my grandmother, um,
uh, on my dad's side was completely deaf almost from her teens.
So I have some of this, uh, but it's been okay. Only as you get older,
everything, the levels, you know, to see like here,
here's a level where you can hear everything and I was already kind of there.
So now it's just due to age, everything goes down a bit.
And so I'm missing one K and one kilohertz I'm missing different,
different tones. Um, and so I went to an audiologist and said, well,
it's very mild, but yeah,
this can make you repeat stuff and it will get worse over time.
And what actually happens to a lot of men in particular is that they become very
isolated from the world.
They don't even realize that they have a hearing problem.
And now the difference between having them in and taking them out is massive.
Um, just, you know, I can hear how much less it is.
Another clue was that I have a, uh, for my, all my podcast, radio work I've,
you know, headphone, but I put an extra amplifier on. You can see,
you could still hear it today.
Sometimes I'm talking and it'll leak just a little bit.
Cause they have it so loud. Now that's not going to damage my ears.
But the problem with anything you put in your ears, you don't,
you can't hear the sound anymore. And I like that our processing,
our IQ is very important to me. So I can hear that without the hearing aids,
but not with the hearing aids. Oh, that's interesting.
So the hearing aids give you a different kind of sound well,
so today's hearing aid is not your, your grandpa's, you know,
geriatric brown goopy looking piece of that makes you look like a,
just a total moron. How dare you? You did the face. I did the face.
Hey, it's disability here. I get, I get a victim card. Okay. You can get a,
probably a plate boundaries. Boundaries. Okay. So these are the,
um, wide X evoke. These have 35 channels of compressor, limiter,
multiple settings. Um, it's an in ear.
So it goes right into my ear. Um,
I still have a little bleed through from the outside world,
but B so usually an audiologist sticks this thing in your ears and makes you do
all the tests and they'll sit there and they'll sit across from you and they're
going to program it so that you can then hear normal sound,
which is very, it's a very, you have to be a trained professional.
It's very hard to, um, fix someone who has never heard what is proper. Oh,
wow. Okay. Um, now I'm a little different and I'm also way into sound.
And so it's a whole racket. These things are three and a half thousand dollars.
It's, it's a huge racket.
And the way they do it is the manufacturer you can't buy from the directly or
from retail. You can only buy it through an audiologist.
So they're already getting half the money from, you know, the 1500 at least.
And you have to have, uh, uh, you know, appointments.
There's all this money that goes on top.
And then you come back after a couple months and they tweak it and you come back
again. So I said, look, see who I am.
I've told you what I do. Give me the software. She said, oh no, no.
I was going to give it to you. I just wanted to do one session with,
you said you have to have this. So I have, I have,
pre-programmed like six different programs so I can do one just for
music. I can do one for television, uh, one for social situations.
And I have one that I, so I did it all myself, all these 1535, uh,
different channels of compressor limiter.
So when I'm walking around, what I hear on my ears is like a radio show.
Like the sound like when I'm talking right now, I hear my own voice.
It all resonates because I've jacked all that up. So I've made my own, um,
sound reality of sound. But I also have one,
I can set it to a setting in the mall.
I can hear a conversation from 50 feet away. Whoa. It was my, my space,
my eavesdropping setting.
Now the only thing that does that doesn't work is you can't have headphones
cause that, that doesn't work. Having the,
the hearing aids in with the headphones, the sound,
because you're blasting into the microphone. It really doesn't work. That's.
Crazy though, that you could hear people having a conversation 50 feet away.
Can you focus in on people or?
Yeah, I turned my wow. There's I mean, there's a lot. You can, you can focus.
You can have it automatic. So the problem is the way I've set it up.
You can drop a pen there. If I don't see it, I might hear it over there. Now.
That's always going to be a problem. They have, they have a,
an algorithm that will try to guess where the sound is from and tell your ears
that, um, so basically I'm not the guy you want in the battlefield.
Like telling you the shots. Oh.
My God. I just can't hear it. Wow. Um, but just for,
uh, yeah, so it just doesn't work with headphones. That's why I take them out.
It's amazing though. The sound incredibly potent like, oh yeah.
You remember? I mean, you know what real sound sounds.
Does everything sound real to you or.
Well, what you automatically do? Um, uh, because I was able to do it. I,
from having a con I have different settings for different situations.
So if I'm at home, it's relatively quiet or we have some music on or, you know,
TV or whatever. Um, now I have the Tina frequency, which is, you know,
kind of like one kilohertz and that's where I hear her better. And so that's,
uh, jacked up a little bit, but then if I hear you talk,
I can hear it'll be a little, I can hear. It's not exactly you.
It's a little too tinny, maybe so, but that's just me. I mean,
that's not everyone's experience of course, but to me it's,
the disability has become incredible joy because I,
I have like virtual reality on my head all the time.
Saying that you could probably with someone's voice, like a Snapchat filter.
Well.
It's really advanced. I mean, you can, um, connect to an iPhone so you can,
you can stream wirelessly. Um, uh, you can do, like,
if you're driving with directions with the maps and you can just be talking in
your ear, all of a sudden, like you the light turn, right? No one else hears it.
There's no wires, no nothing. I got, you know,
you wouldn't even know I had them in, unless you look.
Yeah, we're becoming cyborgs. Oh.
No. That's although I'm against it. That is a part of the, the,
the road to transhumanism.
Right.
But how can you say you're against it where you you're enjoying this thing?
This to me is more, it's not a replacement. It's an enhancement. Yeah.
You know, and that's how they're going to get us.
When the first guy gets his legs removed for,
for artificial carbon fiber legs, you could feel,
but that can run 60 miles an hour.
When the first guy gets his legs removed in favor of new legs.
That's when we're going to go. Holy.
Whenever I tell my radio buddies about my hearing aids, they're always like, oh,
that's cool. I want that too.
Like, I want that, don't get me wrong. I'm just looking at the bleak landscape.
By the way, be aware. I just, I want to say something because there's a lot of,
um, they're not called hearing aids. They're called hearing amplifiers.
They have some fuzzy, legal language that are coming on the market. You know,
that you put all the way in your ear.
The rechargeable has got a whole bunch of them. They're much, much cheaper. Um,
from an audio standpoint, I've done it for 40 years.
That's not the way you want to go. If you seriously want to know how to,
if you want to hear properly again. So see an audiologist is what I'm saying.
And there's lots of different, you know, it doesn't,
it's not all three and a half thousand dollars. It's more expensive, but don't,
I just recommend that that's self testing is not a good idea.
One of the best pool players in the world is a guy named Shane van boning.
And Shane is a deaf, he was born deaf. And when he plays,
he shuts his hearing aids off and he just,
it's a world of silence and he's just playing in complete total silence.
And when he does that, when he shuts his hearing aid off,
he feels like he's got super concentration.
Like it doesn't matter what else is going on.
All he's doing is just focusing on the balls and there's no,
that that sense doesn't exist so he can he's hyper-focused on other things.
And I noticed that sometimes when I would walk with noise canceling headsets.
It'll do similar. I'll smell.
Things more.
Well.
That's kind of well known is that different parts of your body compensate for
somethings.
More tuned in the more tuned in like, look, glitz, pay attention here.
The years are offline.
A mountain lion could be running behind you and you're listening to the all
things considered.
But that's think about it.
If you can't hear the mountain line frequencies anymore.
And today's mountain lion is, you know, car engines, all kinds of stuff,
you can't hear it. It's dangerous and you don't know it. You just slip into it.
I had no idea until, you know, we haven't new relationship, you know?
So we've been living together for a couple of years and luckily, you know,
we're completely open and honest, like, Hey, this is this up. Yeah.
It's pretty cool.
Cool. That, that exists though. I mean, that's an elegant solution.
And for someone like you,
it's actually gives you a chance to tinker with and I'm sure I'm sure you really
enjoy that aspect of it. Yeah. You love that. I really do.
I can tell a small, it's a small thing,
but it talks about the apps in your phone and you're so excited about that.